Add documentation for adding a widget icon (#41)
bluerobotics/Cockpit-docs: content/development/external-integrations/index.md

+++
title = "External Integrations"
description = "Cockpit External Integrations documentation."
date = 2026-05-07T10:32:32+02:00
template = "docs/page.html"
sort_by = "weight"
weight = 10
draft = false

[extra]
lead = ''
toc = true
top = false
+++

## Configuring cockpit_extras.json

> You can make HTTP servers interact with different elements within the Blue Robotics software suite by creating  a `/register_service` endpoint, click [here](@/usage/advanced/index.md#automatic-external-iframes) to view it's documentation. This endpoint serves a `cockpit_extras.json` file that will be explained in this section. HTTP servers can be served by [BlueOS Extensions](https://blueos.cloud/docs/stable/development/extensions/), the Cockpit host computer or by the internet (for operating conditions where that is viable).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Informing Cockpit of Features

External applications and services can share a variety of integration features with Cockpit using a HTTP server.

It should include a [`register_service`](https://blueos.cloud/docs/latest/development/extensions/#web-interface-http-server) JSON endpoint, with a path to a Cockpit-focused JSON endpoint, e.g.

`/register_service`
```json
{
   ...
   "extras":{
      "cockpit":"/cockpit_extras.json"
   }
}
\``` <-- remove the "\", had to add it for the review suggestion to work

This is often relevant for [BlueOS Extensions](https://blueos.cloud/docs/stable/development/extensions/) that need active interaction while the vehicle is being operated, but can also be provided by programs on the Cockpit host computer, or via the internet (for operating conditions where that is viable).
```

| `config`  | `object` | yes      | A [MAVLink](#mavlink-message-action-configuration), [HTTP](#http-request-action-configuration) or [JavaScript](#javascript-action-configuration) action configuration |
| `version` | `string` | no       |                                                                                                                                                                       |

`cockpit_extras.json`
```json
{
   ...
   "actions": [
      {
         "id": "unique-action-id",
         "name": "ActionName",
         ...
         "version": "1.0.0"
      }
   ]
}
```
#### MAVLink Message Action configuration
| Attribute       | Type     | Required | Note                                                                                      |
|-----------------|----------|----------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `name`          | `string` | yes      |                                                                                           |

> | `messageType`   | `string` | yes      | Click  [here](https://github.com/patrickelectric/mavlink-json)  to view the allowed types |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `messageType`   | `string` | yes      | [Allowed types](https://github.com/patrickelectric/mavlink-json) |
```

"Click here" links add text with minimal value - it's preferable to just add links to the the text they apply to :-)

Author: I agree, I was not sure of how to do it naturally. Your way sounds good.
